Several refugees in the teaching, again in meditation and teaching, said something that again so
connected to us, us, and so important to us, those unknown as then, with our physical conditions,
such as channel, wind, and essence element of the body.
These three components in the body are the vital of our body, our really existence, channel, and
wind, and essence element, essence element.
This is not just only this physical, but even the external level. These three are very vital of
this. Therefore, it is something so important for our enlightened qualities.
And those are again, channel. Channel and channel, wind, and essence element.
Now, essence element as we are trying to connect to our external object of refuge, these three
secret things. So, the essence element as Buddha, and wind as Dharma, and channels are as Sangha
members.
And through that, we discover that our enlightened qualities understand of this. Again, essence,
generally, these three are all connected.
According to the Vedayana teaching, these three are the very vital and the very essence element of
ourself, all the universe.
And for that reason, for example, and the body, the channel aspect, channel aspect is like body.
Without the channel, nerve systems, there is no body. This channel is the best of these poem
formations that what we see is poems.
Poems are the reflections of our channel, our nerve systems, which is known as in Vedayana teaching
that you heard many times, the Vedaya body.
Vedaya body, that is in visible state, visible state. It is according to syllable level, it is om,
om.
About the color level, it is white. White is more visible, more reflective, because it's something
connected with the tones.
That's what channel is. Channel is the beginning of these formations.
When we understand the secrets of these channels, understanding, that means we are exploring the
enlightened energy as Sangha members,
all the display of this variety of the display of the energies that are arising as ray of light.
Signing, we begin to activate and observe and bring to the enlightened state of Sangha.
And then the second is the wind. Wind is so again another important component of our existence and
as well as external things.
Without the wind, nothing will move. Everything will become dead. This is the word, wind.
In the Vedayana teaching, what is known as this wind energy? Wind is known as the Vedaya speech.
Vedaya speech is the movement, the voice that echoes, that brings the clarity, that brings the
understanding to each other.
The communication bridge is the wind. And that syllable, what is it called in Vedayana teaching?
You all know.
The "A". "A" is the basic song, the ordinal song. That is it. And the color is the red. That is
what "A".
And this is again, with this understanding of the wind energy, wind qualities, what are we going to
master?
We are mastering all the understand of the voice and the speech.
This voice and the speech understand is voice of the wisdom, voice of loving kindness, voice of
compassion, unseasoned voice.
That's what in the teaching, often you heard in the Vedayana teaching, and as well as in the Mahay
ana teaching, the Sambo Gaya is always unseasoned teaching, unseasoned teaching.
There is no stopping. Teaching is continuing. That's also what you call here. The music is in "A",
right? You have to pull out.
That's it. This all, this voice of the wisdom is what is unseasoned state. That is known as the
wind energy.
And then of course our breathing, all these things too, is part of the wind.
And this is what the Dharma is. Dharma is the message of love, kindness, compassion, restoring the
confidence, courage, commitment, and respecting appreciation to all others.
That it brings up that by this voice, this energy. And we use the right way. That is Dharma. That
is the secret object of the Dharma.
Then the next one is what? Known as the essence. Essence element of the body. Essence, generally
essence.
This essence is again what is Buddha, generally. Buddha is Sanskrit word in which every translation
of that into English, I think it is known as "awaked one".
Awaked. Awaked one. This essence has again many different meanings. Of course we won't go all these
different things.
But essence has many different meanings. And what is intubate? Known as "piggly". Piggly is
translated as essence ploid, plude, right? Plude.
But also "piggly" means spear. Spear or zero. "Piggly" means zero. "Piggly" means spear. "Piggly"
means essence plude. Ploid. Ploid.
Ploid. That's what essence "piggly" means. All that. But in this case, for example, again "piggly"
is something that has connected with, call it of, the blessfulness and wisdom.
Blessfulness and wisdom is the essence, nature of ours. Your nature, my nature. Blessfulness of the
emptiness.
When blessfulness is, therefore everyone is in the world, if they have feelings, consciousness,
always looking for the blessfulness.
Because it's a deep, drawn, yearning cause. It's a deep calling because that is nature. It's not
something that is unnatural. Blessfulness is natural.
But when we must handle that blessfulness, looking for that, and then it becomes the emotions. Then
it becomes the hindrance.
Therefore, the nature of this spear, nature of this plude, whatever the level we're talking, the
nature is blessfulness of the emptiness.
Emptiness means what? Emptiness means "Muslim." It's a waking status. It's a wake. So, blessfulness
is wake. That is the nature of ours, nature of you, the nature of me.
That is Buddha. A waking blessfulness. A wake, a wake blessfulness. This is our central essence.
That is, this is, according to the Vediana teaching, to activate this nature has many different
names.
"Gurupayama Sambhava," "Buddha Shakyamuni," "Tara," "Avalokirishora," "All the Vedic Kalaaya," "H
aya Giva," and "Kala Chakra," and so forth.
But that is basic calling, the ultimate nature, ultimate nature of what we are.
So, when we need that understanding, that Buddha, then all the displays is transcendent into
everything into that status.
When it came or appeared in the syllable, what is called? That you own. The home. That's it, true.
Home. Home.
That's it. The color of a home is what? Always sense it. What? Blue. That's it. Yes. And blue is
what symbolize.
I'm changing. And blue is also deep of the sky. Sky, colors. Colors. It's not going to change
anyways.
Never going to what, no matter whatever the century changed, the millennium changed, whether it
started changing by the big bangs and not big bangs.
And no matter whatever, I think blue sky will remain. I guarantee money back.
We will see this after 1,000, or 2,000, 3,000, or 3,000 million years after. If someday change,
call me.
I will give back the penny. But that time, maybe penny will cost more, so you can't drink.
I heard news that there's a penny, there's one penny that you can get over 400,000. You heard that?
Yeah, really. Really, one penny.
I don't know. You Google search for that penny. Really, I heard that.
So therefore, this is called a secret object reference.
And this is why I call it a secret, because this is something that is inherited with us, with
ourselves now.
We're not talking, I'm not talking, or Buddha is not talking.
The greatest teacher in Gurbia is not talking, something that is not with us. This is tangible
things. This is true.
True. We have channel, we have wind, we have essence element. That's why we're breathing. That's
what we like.
So when we see the close, I mean, see this nature as it is, in the reality as it is, then we can
get enlightenment.
That's why the Vadiyana teaching is so powerful, so special.
You're using all the different ways of exploring this enlightened nature, not just one way, but
many different techniques,
and applying and then discovering our treasures. That's natural.
And so that is really about the secret object of reference.